What do you sort of want to say something about the year? When we first spoke of
Jack early on in there and I said that Jack and invited me over and this was in
1975. And that's where maybe it was just 76 and I came over and Jack signed some
of the books for us. We did a limited edition sign number edition and Jack lived
up in the hills there on the area and his house was up on the side of the hill
and along the air winding driveway goes up through the trees to his house and I
went up and met him and got to know him after a little while but over there a
number of times he said just to I guess just to visit more than anything else
and I've got to know him and his charming wife Norma who is kind of the one of
the background or the basis of the whole thing that goes on over there. There
are really a partnership Jack and Norma and their son John who's 22 or 23 now
and the trees and their family unit and they work together and they're very
close to them and Jack's quite Jack's for a fellow who's completely unknown
within the field as far in terms of the personality you know and knows them and
you never goes anywhere.
Jack's really a social guy and has a number of parties and goes out quite a bit
and social life is quite a bit with really a right variety of people and Jack
and Norma and John and
got to be quite good friends and our friendship was really not it just started
with the brook I guess and with publishing Jack but that's just sort of it's
almost been excuse for us to be together and we spend a lot of time together and
I'm not even sure we talk about is this illustration Jack's great lover of
classical illustration which is to say up ears and K. Nielsen and Harry Clark
and people who were illustrating at the turn of the century in the early 20th
century and I guess we spend a lot of time talking about that a lot of time just
talking about anything but Jack's work which we almost never discussed it never
comes up and last year and both of them were Chuck came out here at a
Pennsylvania where I am now here visiting Chuck and Jack came out stay with
Chuck for a while and
they are distance and they spent the action to be treated spent the time
together at the floor which they normally was there and the power about Norma
said as they key to this whole thing in a way that I can't explain but in any
case Chuck and Chuck's life and myself and Jack and Norma,
Scott together and spent a lot of time together and it's an unusual thing when I
was something like a book where I guess a work of art and it's been brings
people together and one of the basis of what later becomes very close friendship
and particularly Jack's case because Jack never discusses his work and it
doesn't care to somehow want to finish a piece it's a piece launched a ship and
ship goes sales away and he's no longer a prior it and that's how he feels. Of
course anyone wants to you know the choice recognition and Jack should get more
than he does but Jack's life is not really has very little to do with literature
except that he writes it doesn't he doesn't associate with people who have to
do musicians because Jack himself is a musician and the choice music to a great
extent you see that and his work he's showing up at his books at the time and
that's most of what I want to say I just want to get a little of the personal in
there Jack's a I've been a good friend and
he's been a usual fellow and he's been a it's an unusual kind of a communication
and you if you enjoy Jack's work like I do we probably have the same sort of
relationship communication because it's with an understanding of life that is
the reason that you and I both enjoy Jack's work because he sees things a
certain way and reacts to things a certain way and just sees a certain colors or
whatever and right for on them and it's it's interesting and a pleasure to
communicate with a person like that because you can speak of certain things that
normally might never come up in your life otherwise you may never come up in
your casual conversation with with your friends or your business associates or
whatever Jack and Norma and I and Chuck are all sure that kind of communication
sort of rare thing and not really something that can be surrounded or defined by
work okay that's very good I listen as long as you brought it up can I shoot a
couple more quick ones out here you're right now when we spoke to him I asked
him a question about oh essentially like what do you want to be remembered for
or what's your conception of your own work and so forth and he replied in this
way and I think he was joking he said I want to be remembered as a rich science
fiction writer how would you respond to his conception of his own work and what
he actually said he's stepping into a role there to avoid a question which I
guess any writer might want to avoid I don't know I know Jack is offended by
artists who take himself too seriously and that as you know is a real problem
with artists and writers today once they take himself seriously then they're
finished really most of them are finished as as originators or as two artists
and so Jack who we use is to take himself seriously and does not act like an
artist or talk like an artist or whatever and first he'll be a rich science
fiction writer I don't know if Jack had wanted to be in red she he could have he
did some work in Hollywood you could have stayed down there or he could have
gone through the motions like a lot of other writers and appeared on the shows
and and public sizes on work and promoted his own work and he didn't do that and
that's was by personal inclination and by choice so as far as working wants to
be remembered for Jack always says he wants his work to stand for by itself and
I think he just wants to be remembered for his work he refuses to pick favorites
among his work I know he likes to steam and train series a lot for good reason
he likes the power of love which is a third in that series he likes the eyes of
the overall this sequence stories of the fellow kukul and that's part of because
kukul is a rascal and and a van's and stuff is a bit of a rascal and kukul is
even more so he's the kind of rascal that answers like to be if he wasn't such a
nice guy at heart would he mind if we put a quote like that on our show from you
oh not at all Jack is no has there's no in fact if I were to sit here and and
solve Jack and and and call the guy a lot of names he would he would probably
enjoy hearing another radio simply as a as a
one person who is helped us to defend himself or reply I guess it's weird public
or private I won't do that to Jack but Jack certainly would not mind it okay
listen also I when I spoke with him I near the end of the interview I was asking
about his future work and so forth and he mentioned that book he just finished
and what he might have planned just in your personal opinion are there as many
or are there some more really good books that he is going to be writing he was
kind of got the impression he wondered if he still had it if he could still
write up to the standards he had set for himself well that you know every writer
feels that particularly when they're not finished with a work in Jack is
finishing up this work and he's just Ryan S. this is a variety of things he
works which takes place on earth Ryan S. is kind of a it's like a variety of
some kind of mythical island offshore Britain somewhere you want to locate it
it's some time in the far past and it's a magical place with elves and trolls
and beams like that and yeah
I think this is a major work and I think there'll be a few more Jack's writing
fewer books but he's going to write just a few large major pieces now he's kind
of done fooling around one of the reasons he's writing all these kind of
unrelated books and these books they weren't short but they certainly weren't
long for it's no one with no one with with paying to do any differently and he
was making money as a writer and no one would until Berkeley
gave him a reasonable advance on the work that he's doing now which arrived him
to work for a year to on an interrupted I mean there's an economical reasons for
the sort of thing and so he was you know he finally had the stature and and
found the publisher that believed in him god will hide him also has done a good
deal for Jack put a lot of his books out got him all back in the print but a
Berkeley will be publishing this particular book and he's been able to do it so
he's doing that and the jack when he worked the last two even print books
they're the same we read the first three and he thought you know god these are
really good books and they are in fact astounding more for literature and he
wondered if he was up for stuff he could still write like that and then he sat
down and wrote two more and they were very different than the first three but
they were as good and Jack some people liked the better I guess it's a matter of
preference but I think what you heard was a writer just thinking to himself okay
I can read a little bit of the work that he's that it's the thing that he's
working on now and I there's some tremendous stuff in there that's all I say
about okay I can think of one more this is sort of a personal opinion question
two just between two Jackman's fans I suppose any writer has to put some of
himself into his characters you mentioned that maybe there's a little of bands
in kugel for instance um in my reading of his work I would say that maybe the
inder dain trilogy the the protagonist gas to let's wait if all the characters
fans is written about to me that would seem closest to what I would conceive of
him as a being how would you respond to that yeah you've got it there and and
also uh there's a lot of bands in inferior in the man in a son you know because
Jack and Norma are both very close to their son John and inferior in a sense it
was kind of written I think for John to read it some later date in his life John
and son John doesn't he doesn't read any of his father's books and uh uh I think
Jack wrote that book for John and and I would say yes I'd say their dain uh and
Jack likes that series of often really mature work um yeah there's a lot of men
there because Jack is a musician and uh I just amosition going out of the world
and finding things out about itself and the world around us yeah uh but kugel
also you know Jack's uh a bit of a rascal and uh that part of him is having to
be uh kugel oh you're going to do their dain by the way yeah yeah I'm looking
forward to that when that's probably my favorite yeah yeah that's uh some people
feel that way yeah we're really like that series you're right when you said it
was a mature work I think that uh first suddenly yeah yeah listen not
connections kind of getting bad now anyhow and I think that's probably all the
time we better very good just a second uh David has oh David wants to know if
you're going to do the hardcover blindness ever oh yeah as a matter of fact
we're planning to do that because no Berkeley's probably going to issue it as a
trade paperback so if it works out yes we are going to do a hardcover edition of
that and so theoretically yours will be the first hardcover yeah it'll be a
it'll be the first edition also if we can precede them yeah and it'll be a small
edition probably seven of the copies whatever yeah we're going to stand you
mailing list then listen we sure appreciate your time again thank you very much
okay yeah okay if you have any other questions or whatever just tell me how
we'll call Chuck here we might do that thank you yeah very good thank you bye